---
layout: post
title: How learning data analytics reinforced my love of coding
date: 2023-12-23
categories: ["coding", "data", "analytics"]
thumbnail: "assets/images/digital-marketing-1433427_1280.jpg"
---

# Data Analytics Helped Me Relearn to Love Coding

This year I decided to learn something new after 2023 burned me out of coding. Hey I'm not saying I don't love it, just that after two layoffs in one year, that can leave a sour taste in your mouth.

Anyhow, I took an 8 week course offered by the Open University, on learning to code for data analytics. In this course, you learned how to use python for transforming data sets using jupyter notebooks and pandas.

I found this really interesting because it reminded me of my first software engineering job where I was working on using Big Data, with Pyspark and Apache Hadoop. It was really fun writing these little code snippets running the cell and immediately watching the graph output the data. Something about that immediate gratification of watching the command run and retrieving the data was quite fun. I think at this point in my career I feel like I truly am more interested in working towards a backend.

The course itself was quite fun and I appreciated the platform, if I had known about the Open University when I was first attending college I would've just gone there and saved myself a boat load of money as opposed to the brick and mortar uni I went to, but it was the early 2010s and the internet was as open as it is now. We truly live in a new information age.

Well, after the course, I found myself searching YouTube videos on data analysis and I started messing about with data transformation and visualization using Excel. I had no idea if statements existed in Excel that was quite neat and being able to create pivot tables and charts to reflect the data was insanely satisfying.

I'm thankful that the open uni course reignited my love for learning to code because I felt lost towards the end of 2023. 2023 was quite a rough year for me and I'm hopeful 2024 will have a better outlook.

[Link to the Excel project I worked on](https://github.com/sardine-bro/Data-Analyst-Project-1)

[Link to the Open Learn Platform for free courses offered by the Open University](https://www.open.edu/openlearn/)
